# 🔮✨ Natal Chart Generator ✨🔮

> The Natal Chart Generator is a simple command-line  application used to identify the position of the planets at the time of the users birth. This application generates an SVG chart for the user to keep.

## Background & Planning

In preparation for building this app, an analysis was conducted to compare astrological/natal Python libraries. Most of these libraries are based on the Swiss Ephemeris library (pyswisseph) which calculates astrological data and the Olsen Timezone Database (pytz) which enables timezone calculations and corrections.

From the list of relevant libraries - two were selected and compared (Kerykeion | Natal) with Kerykeion being a better fit for this application due to it's ability to input latitude, longitude and timezone, rather than needing to convert timezones manually.

## Installation & Requirements

*Kerykeion* requires Python 3.9 or higher. *Figlet* requires Python 3.9 or higher. *Colorama* will work on a range of Python versions which includes 3.9/3.10.

### - Installation of Application -

Clone (or fork then clone) the below repository or open the folder if a local copy has been provided:

```py
git clone https://github.com/BeeGeeEss/natal_chart_app
cd natal_chart_app
```

Create and activate a virtual environment:

```py
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

Run the script:

```py
python main.py
```

### - Installation of Libraries -

Libraries can be installed with pip:

```py
pip install pyfiglet
```

```py
pip install colorama
```

```py
pip install kerykeion
```

If you face any issues with components of the Kerykeion library (functions not running as predicted), you can manually install pyswisseph, pytz or use the standard library for datetime:

```py
pip install pyswisseph
```

```py
pip install pytz
```

## Basic Usage

### - Figlet -

```py
from pyfiglet import Figlet
f = Figlet(font='slant')
print(f.renderText('text to render'))
```

### - Colorama -

Before use, you must initialise Colorama:

```py
from colorama import init
init(autoreset=True)
```

### - Kerykeion -

## SVG Generation

## Help or Troubleshooting

## Project Structure

natal_chart_app/
│
├── Generated SVGs/    # SVG Files Generated by App
│   ├── example.svg
├── Licenses/          # License Files
│   ├── AGPL
│   ├── AGPL
│   ├── BSD
│   ├── MIT
├── main.py            # Main script
├── LICENSE            # Application Project License
├── README.md          # Documentation
└── Requirements.txt   # system/Package/module requirements

## Librabries & Licencing

This application project (Natal Chart Generator) is licensed under the GNU Affero General Public License (AGPL) - in line with Kerykeion and Swiss Ephemeris libraries. See the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for more details.

It uses the following third-party libraries:

- Figlet - Licensed under the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) License. See [Figlet's license](./Licenses/LICENSE-MIT-PYFIGLET).
- Colorama - Licensed under the Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD) License. See [Colorama's license](./Licenses/LICENSE-BSD-COLORAMA.txt).
- Kerykeion - Licensed under the GNU Affero General Public License (AGPL) License. See [Kerykeion's license](./Licenses/LICENSE-AGPL-KERYKEION.txt).

### - Ethical Considerations -

#### Imported Libraries

Figlet and Colorama are licensed under permissive, open-source licenses which allow use, modification and redistribution. MIT and BSD licenses are compatible with eachother. These licenses encourage developer freedom, but don't monitor ethical use of the source code.

MIT Licenses Require:

> The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

BSD-3-Clause Licenses Require:

> 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
> 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
> 3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

__Important: This application has only imported these libraries via pip, it has not modified or redistributed source code. No promotional products are in use. All original copyright notices can be found in [Licenses](./Licenses/).__

Kerykeion is licensed under an AGPL licence most likely because of its use of the Swiss Ephemeris library. AGPL licenses are less permissive and are referred to as copyleft open-source licenses. This type of license ensure a moderate amount of devloper freedom, but also encourages source code transparency and sharing of code changes. Because Kerykeion, Colorama and Figlet are being used only via pip as imported libraries, they are being used in their most permissive states, and the libraries can be used together.

#### Dependencies

Due to Kerykeion using Swiss Ephemeris as a dependency, the Kerykeion library must adopt the AGPL license, and so must this application project. If this application was modifying source code, it would need to be made available to anyone who interacts with the software.

See [Pyswissemph's license](./Licenses/LICENCE-AGPL-PYSWISSEMPH.txt).

__Important: This project cannot gaurantee that Kerykeion has used the Pyswissephem library in accordance with its license.__

#### Use of Personal Information

This application requests the use of personal information such as name, date of birth and location of birth. This information could be misused, stored inproperly or used for malicious purposes. Users need to be aware of the risk at the point of data entry - users should be provided the option of using an alias.

## Author

Developed by ✨BeeGeeEss✨